System Vision
Problem Background

Sydney’s Airbnb listings are so numerous that it is difficult to find any individual listing in the dataset. Software to categorise and refine a user’s results will greatly improve customer experience, as they will only see results that are relevant to them. They will be able to select a specific suburb, price range, features, room type and cleanliness, then decide where they will stay from the results that remain.

System Overview

The system will be able to take a user's search input and output the listings that match this input. A user will be able to enter one or many suburbs, and only receive results for listings within the specified suburb or suburbs. If no suburb is entered, all suburbs will be returned.
A user can also input a price range by specifying maximum and minimum values. The search will return all listings within the specified price range. If one or both of the parameters are not entered, then there will be no limit placed upon the price of listings for any parameter that is missing.
A user will be able to refine the results by searching for words such as 'clean' in the user comments. If a reviewer has mentioned the word clean in their review, the review will appear. The user will then be able to select each review to search the reviews more closely. This will allow them to eliminate results with a comment containing 'not clean', or something similar.
A user can specify from a drop-down menu whether they wish to have a listing which is a whole house/appartment, a private room or other. If no response is selected, then all results will be returned. Otherwise, the listings will be refined to only listings that meet the room type requirement.
Finally, a user can specify keywords in a 'description' search box. If their keywords appear in the summary, space, description, experiences_offered or neighbourhood_overview categories for that listing, the listing will be displayed. Otherwise, it will not.

Potential Benefits

The software is being created to gain insights into Airbnb listings in Sydney through reporting information related to each listing, as well as an overview of all listings.

 

One potential benefit of the software is users being more aware of fair pricing of listings in their area, so they do not overpay for their accommodation. This will encourage hosts to price their listings more competitively, so that they receive guests.

 

Through this software, users will be able to compare listings with each other and will be able to make more informed decisions about their accommodation selection. They will be able to search for listings in the suburb they want, with added specifications, including the number of bedrooms and bathrooms, and then choose a listing from the results that are returned.
